# Vulkan Setup

## 1.Instance
An interface to the Vulkan Library, which we will use to render graphics.

We need to provide information about the application that we are running, as well as the API we want to use.
We also need to pass the extension parameters that we want to use. In this case we are using the GLFW one.

### Extension support
Use the `vkEnumerateInstanceExtensionProperties` function to check the extensions supported.

### Cleanup
Before the program exits we should kill the Instance, to do so simply call the `vkDestroyInstnace` function, as well as killing the window.

## 2.Validation Layers
Vulkan API has minimal driver overhead and limited error-checking, which could result in a number of crashes.
In order to make checks to you code you can add validation layers to your API. These apply additional operations.
Common Operation from validation layers are:
    - Checking the values of parameters against the specification to detect misuse
    - Tracking creation and destruction of objects to find resource leaks
    - Checking thread safety by tracking the threads  that calls originate from
    - Logging every call and its parameters to the standard input
    - Tracing Vulkan calls for profiling and replaying

You can stack validation layers to include all the debugging functionality that you are interested in.
The can be removed on the release version.

Validations are instance based, they check the whole API.

## 3.Physical Devices and Queue Families

### Physical Device
A physical device is a device that we can run computations on. In this case the GPU.

We need to find the available device that supports Vulkan and pick it.

All available devices, have a list of Features/Properties which we can query to see if the device is suitable for us.


### Queue Families
In Vulkan, all operations require command to be submitted to queues. There are different types of queues that originate from different queue families and each family of queues allows only a subset of commands.
We need to check which queue families are supported, on the device that we pick.

## 4.Logical Devices & Queues
We use a logical device to interface with the GPU. We can create multiple logical devices from a single physical device.
We create queues based on the queue families available.

### Queues
Before creating a logical device, we need to specify the queues.
When creating a logical device, we can set the priority of the queue.

### Logical Devices
When creating the logical device, we need to give the queues we require, as well as the features.
When created the GPU component is returned, which holds the logical device and the queues.
