# Presentation

## 1.Window Surface
We need to create a surface which will present which we will render.

When querying for queue families, we need to make sure that they support presentation.
After that we need to create a presentation queue for the graphics and the presentation.

## 2.Swap Chain
Vulkan doesn't have a default framebuffer, so we have built one that will own the buffers we will render to before we visualize them on the screen. Swap chain is essential a queue of images that are waiting to be presented to the screen.
The application will acquire such an image to draw to it, and then return it to the queue. The exact process depends on how we set it up. The general purpose of the swap chain is to synchronise the presentation of image with the refresh rate of the screen.

Not all graphics card are capable to render to a screen. We need to check if the device supports the swapchain extension.

To use the swapchain extension we need to enable it first.

The surface that we will render to need to have the correct properties with the surface.
    - Basic Surface Capabilities (min/max number of images in the swapchain, min/max width and height of  images)
    - Surface formats(pixel format, color space)
    - Available presentation mode


Extent is the resolution of the swapchain images. Usually the same as the window, but can be different resolution.

When creating the swapchain we have to decide on the number of images, usually it's the minImageCount + 1.

## 3.Image Views
To View any Image from Vulkan, including all the Swapchain ones, we need to create a ImageView.
The image view describes how to  access the image and which part of it to access.