# Graphics Pipeline Basics
Graphics pipeline is the sequence of operation that take the verices and textures of your meshes all the way to the pixels in the render targets.
Following headings are in sequence of how the pipeline works.

## Basic Graphics Pipeline

### Vertex/index buffer
Holds the raw vertices and textures of the mesh

### Input Assembler (fixed function)
Collects the raw vertex data from the buffers your specify and may also use an index buffer to repeat certain elements without having to duplicate the vertex data itself

### Vertex Shader (programmable)
Run for ever vertex and generally applies transformations to turn vertex positions from model to screen space. It all passes per-vertex data down the pipeline.

### Tesselation Shader (programmable)
Subdivide geometry based on certain rules to increase the mesh quality. This is often used to make surfaces like brick walls and staircases look less flat when they are nearby.
Hull and Domain Shaders.

### Geometry Shader (programmable)
Runs for every primitive (triangle, line, point) and can discard it or output more primitives than came in. Similar to tesselation but much more flexible.
*NOT PERFORMANT, SHOULD NOT USE.*

### Rasterization (fixed function)
Discretizes the primitives into fragments. These are the pixel elements that they fill on the framebuffer. Any framgments that fall outside the screen are discarded and the attributes outputted by the vertex shader are interpolated across the fragments. Usually fragments that are behind other primitive fragments are also discarded here because of depth testing.

### Fragment Shader (programmable)
Invoked for every fragment that survives and determines which framebuffer(s) the fragments are written to and with which color and depth values. It can do this susing the interpolated data from the vertex data, which can included things like texture coordinates and normals for lighting.

### Color Blending (fixed function)
Applies operations to mix different fragments that map the same pixel in the framebuffer. Fragmetns can simply overwrite each other, add up or be mixed based upon transparency.

### Framebuffer
Holds the rendered image

## Shader Modules
We use GLSL and convert them to SPIR-V for better compatability between manufacturers and drivers.

### Vertex Shader
Processes each incoming vertex. It takes inputs like world position, color normal and texture coordinates. The output is the final position in clip coordinates and the attributes for the fragment shader, like color and texture coordinates.

Clip coordinates is a four dimensional vector from the vertex shader that is turned into a normalized device coordinate by diving the whole vector by the last component. They are homogenous coordinates (from -1,-1 to 1,1)

### Fragment Shader
Fragment is invoked per fragment to produce color and depth for the framebuffer.

### Using the shaders
We need to read the file and enter it's content to create a shader module.

Then we need to create a shader stage object that will be entered in the pipeline process.
The stage needs to have the shader module, as well as the type and main method name.

## Fixed Functions
### Vertex Input
Describes the format of the vertex data. Roughly in 2 ways:
    - Bindings: spacing between data whether per-vertex of per-instance
    - Attribute descriptors: type of the attributes passed to the vertex shader, which binding to load them from and at which offset.

### Input Assembly
Describes the geometry from the verices and if the primitive restart should be enabled, with the topology option.

### Viewports and Scissors
The viewport describes the region of the framebuffer that will be rendered, usually (0,0) to (width, height).
minDepth and maxDepth values specify the range of the depth values ot use for the framebuffer, 0f to 1f.

Scissors will be used by the rasterizer to cut rectangles out.

### Rasterizer
Takes geometry that is shaped in vertices from the vertex shader and turns it into fragments to be colored by the fragments to be colored by the fragment shader.
It also peforms depth testing and face culling. IT can be configued to output fragments that fill the entire polygon or just wireframes.

- depthClampEnable: the fragments that are beyond the near and far planes are clamped to them as opposed to discarding them.
- rasterizerDiscardEnable: the geometry never passes through the rasterizer stage.
- polygon mode:
    - Fill: fills the polygons with fragments
    - Line: draw lines (needs lineWidth)
    - Point: just render thepoints
- cullMode: type of culling
- frontFace: which face to consider front (clockwise/counter-clockwise)
- depthBias (constFactor, clamp, slope): alter depth values by adding a constvalues or biased based on a fragment's slope.

### Multisampling
Used for anti-aliasing, works by combining the fragment shader result of multiple polygons that rasterize the same pixels, usually occuring along edges.

### Color Blending
After the frag shader has returned a colour, it needs to be combined with the color that is already in the framebuffer. this is done in 2 ways: mix the 2 colors or combine the colour with a bitwise operation.

### Dynamic State
Some parts of the pipeline can be changed without recreating it.
For example, viewport size, line width and blend constants.

### Pipeline Layout
We can use uniform values which are globals that can be changed at drawing time to alter the behaviour of your shaders without having to recreate them.
They are commonly used to the transformation matrix to the vertex shader or to create texture samplers in the fragment shader.

Uniform values need to be specified in during the pipeline creation.

## Render Passes
### Attachment Description
Describes the different attachment we want to add to the framebuffer.
It has the following fields:
    - format: format of the image
    - samples: the number of samples
    - loadOp: 
        - Load: Preserve the existing contents of the attachment
        - Clear: Clear the values to a constant at start
        - DontCare
    - storeOp: wether the image will be stored it memory
        - Store
        - DontCare
    - imageLayout: which image layout the render pass being
    - finalLayout: which it ends
        - imageLayouts are of type VkImage and can be of the following
            - Attachment_Optimal: use image as color attachment
            - SRC_KHM: image to be presented in the swap chain
            - DST_Optimal: images to be used as destination for memory copy operation

### Subpasses and attachment references
Subsequent rendering operations that depend on the conents of framebuffers in previous passes.

Subpasses references one or more attachments.

Subpass descriptor has:
    - pipelineBindPoint
    - colorAttachmentCount
    - pColorAttachments.

### Render Pass
Using the above information we can create the RenderPass.