# Drawing
## Framebuffers
All attachment are bound by wrapping them into a Framebuffer.
A framebuffer references all of the ImageView objects that are represent the attachments. The Image that we have to use for the attachment depends on which image the swapchain returns when we retrieve one for presentations.
That means we have to create a framebuffer for all of the images in the swap cahin and use the one that corresponds to the retrieved image at drawing time.

We need to create a framebuffer for all imageViews in the swapchain.

When we create the framebuffer, we use the renderpass, the attachments and the imageView extent to set the size.

## Command buffers
Command buffers are not executed directly using functions calls, we have to record all the operations you want to perform in a command buffer object.
The advantage of this is that all of the hard work of settingup the drawing commmands can be done in advance and in multiple threads, After that, you have to tell Vulkan to execute the commands in the main loop.

### Command pools
We need command pools to create command buffers. Command pools manage the memory that is used to store the buffers and the command buffers are allocated from them.

Command buffers are executed by submitting them on one of the device queues. Each command pool can only allocate command buffers that are submitted on a single type of queue.
We need to render graphics so we need to choose the graphics queue family.

Flags on command pools:
    - CREATE_TRANSCIENT_BIT: Hint that the command buffers are rerecorded with new commands very often
    - CREATE_RESET_COMMAND_BUFFER_BIT: Allow command buffers to rerecord individually, wihtout this flag they all have to reset together.

### Command Buffer Usage
Allocate a command buffer to the record commands.
The command buffer can have one of two levels:
    - Primary: Can be submitted to a queue of execute, cannot be called from other command buffers
    - Secondary: Cannot be submitted directly, but can be called from primary command buffers. It's helpful to reuse common operation from primary command buffers.

To start the command buffer, we can pass flags and inheritanceInfo.
The flags are:
    - One time submit bit: Command buffer will be rerecorded right after the executing it once
    - Render pass continue bit: Secondary command buffer will be entirely within a single render pass
    - Simultaneous use bit: The command buffer can be resubmitted while it is also already pending execution

The inheritanceInfo is only used for secondary command buffers. it specifies which state to inherit from the calling primary command buffers.

To start the render pass we need to pass a number of paramters:
    - render pass obj
    - framebuffer
    - renderArea/Extent
    - clearColor values for the background
    - How the drawing command within the render pass will be provided:
        - Inline: the render pass commands will be embedded in the primary command buffer itself and no secondary command buffers will be executed
        - Secondary comomand buffers: the render pass command will be executed from secomdary command buffers

To start setting the drawing command we have to:
- Set the graphics pipeline that we are going to use.
    - we also specify if the pipeline is graphics or computer pipeline
- Bind vertex buffer
- Bind graphics descriptor set
- Draw the frame, by speicifying
    - vertexCount: Even though we dont' have a vertex buffer, we technically still hav 3 vertices to draw
    - instanceCount: Used for instanced rendering, use one if you are not doing anything
    - firstVertex: Used as an offset into the vertex buffer (gl_VertexIndex)
    - firstInstnace: Used as an offset for instance rendering (gl_InstanceIndex)

To finish the rendering we whave to
- end the render pass
- end the command buffer. 

## Rendering and Presentation

### Synchronization
The `draw` function needs to do 3 things
    - Acquire an image from the swap chain
    - Execute the command buffer with that image as attachment in the framebuffer
    - Return the image to the swapcahin for presentation

All of these opeations should be done asynchronously, however each of these opeartions depends on the previous one.
To fix this we can use 2 ways to synchronize the swapchain events: fences and semaphores. Both objects will synchronize one operation signal with another operation signal.
The difference is that the fences can be accessed from your program when the semaphore can't.

Fences are used to synchronize the applicatoin with rendering operation, while the sempahore are used to synchronized to sync operations within or across command queues.

### Semaphores
We will need 2 semaphores:
    - will signal that the image has been acquired and it's ready for rending
    - signal that rendering has finished and presentations can happen.

### Acquiring and image form the swap chain
We acquire an image using the given function, we have to hand in the logical device, the swapchain, timeout time, semaphore, fence, the index of the swapchain to output the image.

### Submitting the command buffer
To make the submission to the queues we need to set the following parameters
- WaitSemaphores which the submission will wait for
- CommandBuffers
- SignalSemaphores which the submission trigger once done


### Subpass dependencies
Transitions between subpass are called subpass dependencies.

There are two built-in dependencies that take care of the transition at the start of the render pass and at the end of the render pass, but the former does not occur at the right time. It assumes that the transition occurs at the start of the pipeline, but we haven't acquired the image yet at that point! There are two ways to deal with this problem. We could change the waitStages for the imageAvailableSemaphore to VK_PIPELINE_STAGE_TOP_OF_PIPE_BIT to ensure that the render passes don't begin until the image is available, or we can make the render pass wait for the VK_PIPELINE_STAGE_COLOR_ATTACHMENT_OUTPUT_BIT stage. I've decided to go with the second option here, because it's a good excuse to have a look at subpass dependencies and how they work.

### Presentations
The last step into drawing a frame is to submit the result back tot he swapchain to have it eventually show up on the screen.

To do that we need to ask the swapchain to wait for the sempahore to signal and then get the data and load them on the appropriate swapchain.

### Frames in flight
Because the whole set up is asynchronous, we don't really check if the work is done.

To fix this we can ask the GPU to waitIdle once done, however this is not optimal as we are only working on one frame.

## Swap chain recreation
To recereate the swapchain we will waitIdle the device,
The discard the swapchain and reset the swapchain, framebuffer, render_pass, pipeline and viewport.

### Suboptimal or out of date swapchain
While aqcuiring the next image we might be in a suboptimal or out-of-date state. We will stop the rendering and ask the render in the next frame to recreate the swapchain.

### Handling resizes explicitly and minimization
We need to look out for the size of window changing including minification.
When to window gets resized we will need to recrete the swapchain.
If the windows gets minified, size =(0,0), then we will need to idle the swapchain until the window resized.
